Now, let us look at how recursion uses Stack, Folbigg, this first example, and explain to show you
how the stack is utilized.
Not already.
We have seen this model of memory that the memory is used by dividing into three sections.
One is called S. And here a short stack and this is heap.
Now, in my program I have two functions that is fun one and mean.
So the machine code of those two functions is already there in code section.
Now let us run the program and see how the stock is created.
See, the program starts executing some main functions.
So the first function, this main function in that main function, this is the first statement that
is X is created.
So activation the code for main function is created and it will have its own variable that is X having
value three.
That the very next statement is fund one, a call to function one.
So one of the functions, one is called it, is having just one variable that is n this is the only
variable.
So activation record for that function is created and it will have that variable N and this value X
is passed on to that one.
So it will be three.
So this is four million and this is for fun one.
I'm showing you line by line how it is working.
Just let us look at it once more, see the program start executing from main function.
The very first thing is X, so activation of the code for me.
And then X has created the values and the function is scart and that function is having just one variable
that is n so activation.
The code is created for fun, one between N and having the military let us continue.
If that is greater than zero.
Yes, the threat is greater than zero.
So as for the three, already we have seen that the 3D printed the next call function fun.
One is called once again with the reduced value of and that is diclemente to value and minus one.
So that function is called again.
So once the function is called, we know that activation record will be created and in that again variable
M and that will have the value to this time.
This is also activation the code for fun one and the second call not in that second call.
Again, it checks, if any, is better than zero.
Yes, two is greater than zero.
So pretty tough, so to speak.
And the next line call again and the minus one.
So right now and there's a two.
So again, a new call.
Again, an activation of the code is created and variable and it's created with value one.
And this is again, a call for fun one.
Now, again, if it's better than zero, yes, one is greater than zero, one one is Sprint.
And then again call for one again, call one one with reduced value, decrement add value and minus
one.
So again, inactivation record for fun.
One is created and it will have the variable end and that value zero.
This is a call again for one.
This time as a zero, when it calls again endoskeleton zero, so no, and it's not greater than zero,
it will not enter inside, it will not print anything here, doesn't print anything.
And it will come out of this conditional statement.
So it doesn't enter into conditional statements.
So it will come out of the function.
And once that call ends, this activation record is deleted and the control goes back to the previous
call.
And in that previous call, what it has done, it has called this one.
So the next is nothing so that Carl will be using this activation record.
And that also ends so again, this is also deleted, it goes back to the previous caller and the previous
call, this line is over, so there's nothing remaining.
And that call uses this activation of the card, but there is nothing to do.
So this also deleted and also deleted.
Then it come back to me inside mean after one, there is nothing remaining.
So this also ends.
So all this activation and one by one.
So this is how stock is created and utilized agriculture.
Now, one more thing.
What is the size of the stack leaving main function if you count the activation, the guards, one,
two, three, four.
So only for that function, for activation of the cards are created for site of the staggers forward
and how much memory is consuming.
Each activation of the card is having just one variable.
And and and and so.
And how many times.
Four times.
So you can see the calls here.
One, two, three fours.
Already we have done one, two, three, four, four.
So already we have done tracing, we have generated a tracing through your recollection.
So there are four calls for activation.
The cards are created.
And at the end of this, it will go back and go back, so activation records are deleted again, so
sight of the memory consumed by this function.
As for India, whatever the size of variable integer is for the value of X that is known as a three
for value.
Of the three, there are four calls for the value of an equal to five.
There will be six calls so far n there will be N plus one Clontz so turtling plus one call.
So how many activation cards and plus one activation records.
So you can see that the activation of the card number of activation of the cards depends on the number
of calls.
So total calls are and plus one.
And what is an actual variable.
How much memory is consuming now.
It is integer type taking to buy it for, for by depending on the compiler.
So we can say just an endless phone call.
So the total memory consumed by this is order off and we can mention it as outdraw and.
Why not plus, one dead?
See, this is a polynomial, a formula, and it one in that degree of the formula is one higher Satomi's
and so we take and so we degree the order of our degree of.
And so we mentioned the space house order of M, but actually if you see this and plus one activity,
the records are created.
So from this discussion we can understand that recursive functions utilize this stack.
So here internally it takes some extra memory for the stack.
So there are memory consuming functions, recursive functions are memory consuming.
So that's all I have explained.
This one not already.
I have a stack then just I will show you how this function looks, how dysfunctional look.
So I will use this program as well as a tree.
Then also I will show inside the stack what happens.
Let us look at it quickly.
There are two functions.
One, two, and mean both these functions are there inside main memory.
Now let's start executing program.
Start from the main functions for the first variable X, so activation the code for me was created and
having the value tree in X and it will call function Fundo.
One of the functions on two is called activation.
The code for two is created.
So it means all these are four two now.
So I just change them.
So the first call, an equal to three, this is created, that is this one, this is created now and
is greater than zero.
Yes.
Then call again.
So again, it will call with and minus one.
So a new call will create this activation record with an equal to two.
Then again, it will call.
Then again, it will call C, because the first statement is called since calling itself every time
when N is equal to zero zero is not greater than zero.
So it will not end if block can come out of the function.
Once it come out of the function, this activation record is deleted because the function with the value
of an R zero has terminated.
It goes back to the previous call in the same function.
It will go back to the previous call where it has finished to this one.
Now it has to perform this.
That is this line in the entry.
So what is the value of and it has to break the current topmost activation of the code is this one where
the value of end is one.
So it will print one.
It will print one, because the value of this one here and once it has finished, it will come out and
this activation record is deleted.
It will go back to the previous column in the previous call again and has finished the first line.
That is this line.
Now it has to do this so print and so what is the value of.
And now so the topmost activation occurred in the stack you can see now and value is two.
So this is printing, so to speak.
Likewise 3D printer and all this activation the code.
And so you can see that these activation records are created when the function was calling itself again
and again.
So this is more like ascending.
Now, once it has reached the last call, that is where is the Theodore?
So it will start returning.
So that is a descending.
So why are they sending it valued like these values?
So all the values of and are there in the stack and the different activation records.
So these values are utilized at returning time.
So that's all.
This is how recursion uses stack.
So both of these functions are almost the same.
Only the difference is that this is first printing and then calling, this is first calling, then printing.
So the activation that God created for these functions will be same only.
So that is the reason to have taken two similar examples.
And I have shown you how the stock is utilized.
It will be the same in both the programs.
The size of the stack and the space consumed by this function is also author of and that is total and
plus one activation.
The cards are created for the function Fundo leaving the site.
I mean, this is all recursion uses a stack.
Now, next thing that we have to study is how to find the time complexity of recursive functions.
So I will take just one example, this example, and show you how to find the time complexity of recursive
function.